High level overview for building your own plugin (#1467)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/plugins/build.md

showTitle: true
---

> ## 5 Minute Overview

Reviewer: This page is now a really long list of a tutorial, overview and a reference. It might make more sense to split it out into its components, something like
- overview of how plugins work
- tutorial on what plugins are
- reference of all functions and settings

Author: Makes sense, I did it a bit differently, let me know if it doesn't make sense:

- Overview: How Plugins work and how the code works
- Tutorial: How to get a plugin from zero to published in our repository (this now contains explicit instructions on the developer workflow, options available, and probably the one place that will start recommending the starter kit and how to use it. I'm still working on fleshing this section out)
-  Reference for all functions

```js
/* Runs on every event */
export function processEvent(event, meta) {
    // Some events (like $identify) don't have properties
    if (event.properties) {
        event.properties['hello'] = `Hello ${meta.config.name || 'world'}`
    }
    // Return the event to ingest, return nothing to discard  
    return event
}
```

Note how you need to return the event to ensure the chain continues. If you return `null` or `undefined`, you're telling us to discard this event.

`onEvent` is what you'd use to do something else, like exporting to S3. For example, the below plugin logs the current URL on $pageview type events:

TK: find a better phrase for "do something else"

```js
/* Runs on every event */
export function onEvent(event, meta) {

    if (event.event === "$pageview") {
        console.log(event.$current_url)
    }

    // Don't need to return event, any return value is discarded, and the event is not modified
}
```

As you can imagine, this plugin is pretty useless, since PostHog can already show you this information. But it serves to explain how things work. Note how you can choose what kind of events you want to operate on, using the existing event properties.

> That's all for the crash course. There's a lot you can do with plugins, like running specific jobs every hour, hitting random HTTP endpoints, modifying events coming in, etc.Below you'll find indepth information on all the special functions which allow you to do this.

Author: ```suggestion
That's all for the crash course. There's a lot you can do with plugins, like running specific jobs every hour, POSTing events to HTTP endpoints, modifying events coming in before they're stored, etc. Below you'll find indepth information on all the special functions which allow you to do this.
```

maybe instead of generics of what's possible, use specific examples, like: get your twitter follower counts every day, and see how that changes with your blogs page views.

More examples.
